Alright, let's build our RoboFriends app. I think to get started
we want to think about components again and what kind of components we want to build
Looking at this website the smallest component that we probably want to start working on is perhaps
the card component
This card over here. If we can build one of these then, according to what I've said before, we can just
copy all these components and add them to the page
So let's start off with this
The card component
Alright
Now, we won't be using the ‘Hello’ component anymore
and if you remember it looked like this
Let's just - I know it's sad but we're going to delete it
We’re going to delete the ‘hello.css’
Start off clean
So I’m going to delete. OK
And we'll also delete ‘hello.css’
I know all our hard work just completely gone
You know what? We're going to start deleting things that we don't need
in this project. For example the ‘App.js’ that we had initially?
Well, we can delete that. We can also delete ‘App.css’
‘App.test’
And the logo
Alright
So everything's looking very small now
We have just ‘index.css’, ‘index.js’ and this ‘Register Service Worker’ that comes with ‘Create a React App’
that we don't need to touch
OK. Obviously we have failed to compile because, well, the ‘Hello’ imports doesn't really work. We don't have
anything. So let's start off with this
Let's start off by creating a ‘card’ component
And this card component, we’ll have to import it from ‘card.js’
Again if I save this, I still get an error because it doesn't exist
So let's create it
I'm going to say ‘new file’, card.js’. Again making sure that this is using ‘Babel’. And let's do what
we've done before. We do import
React from ‘react’
Instead of doing the class way for now we're just going to worry about building the function
so I'm going to say ‘const’, ‘Card’ equals -
It won't have any properties for now
And this will return - have some brackets
And within here we’ll say that it has a ‘div’. Within this ‘div’ we’ll have an image and this image will
have some sort of a source that - we don't know what it is yet so we'll just keep it the way it is
Closing tag. And we'll have another ‘div’
that within here
If you remember we have our name and email in here. So we'll just do an ‘H2’. We'll just write hardcoded
values here
We’ll do Jane Doe
And finally a ‘p’ tag that has some e-mail address. So let’s do Jane Doe at gmail dot com
Close the tag
All right
So we just have a simple component that's returning
‘card’
And remember we want to export this
so we want to say ‘export’, ‘default’, ‘card’
Save
I get ‘img elements must have an alt property’
Again it's giving me a nice hint
so let's just add an ‘alt’ property
We just say what this photo is
so I'll just say ‘photo’ for now. Or I'll say ‘robots’ for now. Compile successfully. If we look back at our
app we have robots Jane Doe and Jane Doe. Perfect
Alright. We have the card component and you must be asking yourself why are we using React here if
we're not really using it
Let's see what happens if I remove it
I get a whole bunch of errors that says ‘React must be in scope when using JSX’. Remember
JSX is this
We're not writing HTML we're writing JSX and we need to import React so that our program understands
JSX. This HTML-like syntax
OK now we need an image and for this exercise I have something called ‘RoboHash’ for you
It's a really really cool API
And for those that don't know what APIs are - don't worry I have a section coming up with all that
information where you'll get to learn about it
But the cool thing about RoboHash is, I can just say anything in here and it will return a random
robot for me
All we need is just this
URL, and I can just say for now, ‘test’
If I save this and go back to my example
There you go
We have our random robot
If I changed this to let's say ‘test test’, I save, well now I get another robot
How cool is that?
Alright, um, I want to make sure that the size is somewhat small so you can do a question mark here and
just give it width and height
So I'm just going to do 200 by 200
And again this is just something that you do with this
URL that they give you in the information here - I won’t make you go through it
I save. Everything should look nice
Now let's say I wanted to add a title and I'll do something like ‘div’ or ‘H1’, ‘RoboFriends’ here
You see I get an error here?
It's because - remember we need to return one thing. And we can’t have multiple elements being returned, right?
If we want to return something make sure it's one thing, or an array
but for now we'll worry about the title later
We want to make sure that we're only returning one element
so in this case that ‘div’ element that has a ton of things inside which is the ‘card’ component
Alright let's save
Alright
We have our card component
It looks nice but what if I wanted to have multiple cards now
According to what we know, because we have the card component
If I go to ‘index.js’.. I can just say - I’ve put this on our new line so you can see - I can just wrap
this in a ‘div’. Again because we want to return just a single element, and I could say ‘card’
‘card’ and close the ‘div’ tag
Save and look at that. We have multiple cards now
They're each their own component
OK but let's add some styling to this just to make it look nicer. Again because we have tachyons
we can use some really nice syntax. If we go to the ‘cards’ component within the div I can say ‘class’
name again
remember we can't use class. ‘BG’, light green
so that is ‘background’, ‘light green’ and this is just tachyon classes that are already predefined for
us. Again,
CSS section - this isn't that
so we're not going to focus too much on CSS. I'll just give you the stylings that you need. We have the
div, the border, we have padding of three, lots of margins two as well
And then it will do ‘grow’ which is the animation
So if I save this. Look at that. That’s.. that's pretty nice
You know what? Let’s add a few more. We’ll do
‘bw2’ and ‘shadow 5’ to add a bit of shadows to them
There you go
They look more 3D now
That looks very nice
There you go
We have our cards.
Again, we don't want this static card where it says Jane Doe Jane Doe Jane Doe we want it to be dynamic
Right?
So it sounds like we need, what we call, ‘props’ - properties. Well and I actually have for you a robots object
that I've created
so I'm just going to add a new file here that says ‘robots.js’ and within here I'm just going to
copy and paste this. As you can see it is just a constant object, it's robots it's an array of objects
and it has ID, name, username, email, and these are just random that I've made
If you want this file then you can grab the files from the end of this section
But for now this way I have something that I can use and you can see I'm exporting it
I can say import robots from ’dot’, because we're in the same directory
robots
Now if I save this we get ‘robots as defined by never used’ but because this is using ‘export’ instead of
‘export default’ this file could have multiple exports
It just so happens that I only have one
The rule is, for these ones because there are a default - well you can just do ‘card’. For ones that aren't
default
you have to destructure it
That is like this
So that if I have another variable let's say, that says ‘cats’ then I will have to do ‘cats’ to grab it
So we have robots and now I can give it some properties
I can say ‘id’ equals
And again we have these brackets so that it's a javascript expression and we'll say ‘robots’.. ‘robots’
first array.. dot ‘id’ has the ID then we have name equals robots
again, the first user dot name, close the bracket, and then we also have email equals robots first
in the array, dot email
Holy moly that's a lot of typing. And I'm going to make this smaller just so you can see. I'm going to
copy and paste for the other ones as well except for..
change this to the second user and then the third use-
Oops.. the second user
Now if I save this it's compiled successfully but nothing has changed because we need to go to cards
I’m going to close ‘robots.js’ for now. Because cards needs to now accept parameters and what are
the parameters?
Well it's properties. And these props are now props dot name, and props dot email
I save that, go back
Hmm. It's not working. Well because this is a javascript expression
Right?
So I need to wrap it in curly brackets
Just the way it works in JSX. Save
Look at that
We have dynamic names that we're passing as properties to each one
Let's add ‘text center’ here
And there you go
Now we have everything centered
That's a lot better
OK
But we also passed ID. We can use ID to do something cool
If you remember in the ESX section we have template strings and because this is a template string we
have to wrap it in a curly bracket so it's a javascript expression
And now within the RoboHash, instead of using test here we can randomize what robots we get
by using the syntax as you remember
and in here we can just say props dot ID
So now this will say RoboHash.org, ID of whatever it is for the robot with the site
So we make sure that again the IDs are always dynamic and changing
If I save this and go back. Look at that. You see that there's a bit of a delay again because we're talking
to the API and the API is returning
answer for us but how cool is that?
We just created our own dynamic cards
One last thing. Although this works, something nicer that you can do is we have something called destructuring
We can do something like ‘const’
name.. email.. equals ‘props’, again
as you may remember from E6, and now I can use outside ‘ID’ as well
and it still works
Another cool thing that you can do and this is even cleaner is, within the parameters you can do destructuring
Again you can add these over here now
And now if I save it should still work and it does
This might be confusing if you're new to destructuring but as you saw step by step we're just receiving
props and we're destructuring the props right inside of the brackets here
This is much cleaner
Alright
That was a lot of fun in a really really fast way
we've just created our own cards. In the next section
we're going to expand on this and make this even better
I'll see you in that one. Bye-bye